With Russia's accession to the WTO and
the entry of foreign companies into
the Russian market, the problem
of business security is moving to
a fundamentally new level.
For successful competitive struggle,
Russian companies will need to introduce
new security technologies
for business.
The theme of the seminar
is the security of business activities.
Today we will discuss the following topics.
Entrepreneurship and competitive
struggle.
Business security,
security threats.
We will pay special attention
to the information and analytical
security of the business.
We will also talk about personnel
security, counteracting corporate
seizures, counteracting
economic terrorism and in conclusion
we will talk about the
organization of business
protection.
So, let's get to the first topic
of our class.
Entrepreneurship and competitive
struggle.
Let's see what entrepreneurship is.
If you consider entrepreneurship
as a cycle consisting of a plan,
the plan is implemented into
business processes and the goal
of any entrepreneurship
is to make a profit.
It is the earning of profit that distinguishes
entrepreneurial activities from
the activities of state structures,
where the main task is
to perform the task.
There are various
threats to business.
Threats can be very different.
Starting from threats from
the criminal, from competitors,
from the state, even by
issuing laws that are
not always convenient for
the entrepreneur.
Threats are also internal, especially
threats from their employees.
We will talk more about
the threats later.
The law on competition and restriction
of monopolistic activity
in the commodity
market.
What does this law say?
What do we understand by competition?
Competition is understood as competitiveness.
Competitiveness of economic entities,
when their independent
actions effectively limit
the ability of each of
them to unilaterally affect
the general condition of
circulation of goods on the relevant
commodity market.
This definition is given on the slide.
Competition is a prerequisite
for normal market relations.
In this case, we will pay
more attention to
unfair competition.
That is, competition,
unfair competition is a very important
moment in the life of any entrepreneur,
and it is the protection from
unfair competition that often lies
at the basis of the successful
activity of the entrepreneur.
So, the slide shows the relations
between market participants
in the market economy.
In these conditions, the entrepreneur
and his company may be in different
conditions with market participants.
It can be cooperation, or interaction,
or competition,
or competition.
The highest level of competition
is the fight.
The main tool for determining
market relationships and the main
tool for analyzing competitive
environment is the Michael Porter
Five-Force Model.
In the slide it is presented as the
following picture.
The outstanding American scientist
Michael Porter, the founder of the
doctrine of competition,
he proposed the model of the five
forces of Michael Porter, but for
the Russian in reality this model
transformed into a model of six
forces.
And we will talk more in detail
about each of these forces that
act on the activities of our company.
The first force is the competitor of the company.
The second force that determines the
company's competitive position is raw
materials.
Raw materials are the supply of raw materials
components, is a very important condition
for the successful operation of the company.
The next buyer.
Buyer lists or customer lists always
constitute a business
secret of the enterprise, and
if competitors try to get and
get these lists, they will get,
they will have a competitive
advantage.
The fourth force is the power of the goods-replacement.
The appearance of an unexpected
new product on the market, which in
its characteristics, in its
purchasing properties,
is superior to the product you produce,
and if this appearance is unexpected,
it can lead to the fact that
your company will go bankrupt.
An example is mobile phones.
When the pager companies began
to conquer this market, mobile phones
were not very developed, and companies
did not override, I speak
of pager companies, did not override
the possibility of
rapid market capture by new
manufacturers.
What happened?
The possibility of new products
replacement poses a
great threat to the company.
The fifth force is the potential
competitor.
The possibility of appearing
in a competitive environment of
companies that have not previously engaged
in this business, but have large
resources, financial resources,
administrative resources, and
which suddenly enter this market,
these companies can significantly
change the balance, the
balance of competitive,
which has been developed to the
present moment.
Well, let's say, what a large
company like Gazprom goes into the
media market or the educational
services market, and having, in general,
the most powerful resources, it becomes,
of course, a very serious competitor
for your company, if you
are engaged in this business.
And for Russia.
For Russia, the sixth power or power
of administrative resource
is very important.
Under administrative resource we
understand the possibilities
of non-economic competition,
namely the ability
of administrative authorities
to influence the competitive space.
The phone right, in general, no
one has canceled yet.
The administrative resource also
includes the media, which
can create a negative image of
your company, which will also
affect the distribution
of forces in the competitive space.
The court also includes crime.
Organized crime can very
actively affect competitive
struggle.
Therefore, in the study and analysis
of the competitive environment,
we use this model widely, which
becomes one of the main
elements, one of the main
tools of analysis.
Now let's look at the methodology of detection
of threats based on the use
of the 5 forces model of Michael Porter.
At the beginning, we identify competitors.
Competitors can be not only in
commodity markets and services markets,
but competitors can be in the field
of finance, real estate,
in the field of personnel.
Now there is very much competition,
especially in Moscow, when
there is a struggle for territory,
that is, competition is accompanied
by various kinds of corporate seizures,
unfriendly acquisitions, and
often this competition is
conducted from beyond the land
on which the enterprise is
located, even a successful
enterprise.
Second, after we have identified
competitors, we have identified the
legal frequency of our contacts.
It is very important to correctly
issue documents for privatization,
for the right to own real estate,
for rental, because it is
with errors in contracts that corporate
seizure begins, when the company-
aggressor seeks for weak spots
in the legal frequency of
your documents, after which
legal processes begin.
Next, the third part of this methodology
is to consider the impact of each force,
we remember the six forces, and
we consider the impact of each force on
the sustainability of our business.
Furthermore, we study the structure
of the administrative resource and
evaluate possible reactions to your
actions of competitors, to the actions
of the administration.
And the last thing we do when working
with this technique is to monitor
to detect the possibility
of signs of threats, as well as
the appearance of new products
and products - replacement.
That is, these are the issues that the
information and analytical structures
of your security service are starting
to deal with.
The last is to identify
potential competitors.
This is how we conduct the first analysis,
the analysis of the situation.
This analysis is necessary
to create a security model
for your company.
Unfair competition.
A few words about the main forms
of unfair competition.
We can identify three directions.
The first is economic repression,
the second is physical repression,
and we have classified industrial
espionage as a separate
category of unfair
competition.
In the case of unfair competition,
competitive struggle is conducted
by methods associated with
violation of market norms and
rules.
What are these violations?
First of all, it is the receipt of
tax and other benefits.
Getting tax and other benefits is
corruption, it is theft, confidential
information, we just talked
about industrial espionage,
it is disinformation.
Desinformation is also often used
very much in competitive struggle.
Use of criminal methods of combat,
work through underwriting firms,
having various benefits.
Let us go to economic repression.
What is it?
What methods do unfair
competitors use in the
struggle for competitive advantage?
Termination of deals and other agreements.
Termination of the activity
of the competitor using administrative
resources.
We are witnesses to many cases
where successful companies were
under the press of various,
so-called, turns in
the pursuit.
This is also the sanitary stations
that carry out checks daily.
They are firefighters.
In Russia, there are more than 50
federal bodies with the right to
control and supervision.
Unfortunately, these bodies do
not always act in accordance with the law.
Further, economic suppression is the undermining
of the competitor's reputation.
The Black Pier.
Creating a negative image of the
company or the head of the company
in the eyes of the public
and in the eyes of the buyers.
This is the disorganisation of the production
of competitors, the overwhelming of leading specialists.
The arsenal of economic repression is
very large.
The Industrial Spy.
The second major area
of unfair competition is industrial
espionage.
Defining industrial espionage.
This means that it is illegal secret
or force-seizure of information
that the competitor's leadership
would like to hide from outsiders.
Industrial espionage is
the use of prohibited methods
of information erasure.
It is the listening to phones,
the introduction of radio devices.
Theft of documents.
This is not authorized access to
computer information.
This is the bribery of competitors, the purpose
of obtaining the necessary information.
Industrial espionage has been
developed for a long time.
With the emergence of new competitors
from Western countries on the Russian
market, I think we will face a lot of
experience in the application of industrial
espionage techniques, since in the West
industrial espionage, as a phenomenon,
has existed for a long time.
In the United States, industrial
espionage is ranked second
as a threat after terrorism.
And in the West there are very
strict laws against industrial spies,
which, unfortunately, in Russia
is not yet.
Thus, the objects of industrial
espionage are information, samples
of products, technology, industrial
waste, and recipe.
A few words about what is,
what information is interesting
for industrial spies.
This information constitutes a
commercial secret.
In Russia, in 2004, a law on commercial
secrets was issued, which
regulates activities
in this field.
Two words about what a trade
secret is.
A commercial secret can be defined
as scientific, technical, technological,
production, financial, economic
or other information, including
the constituent secrets
of production or know-
how.
Know-how translates as “I know how.”
And here the information that
has actual or potential value
is the first condition.
Second, this information is not
free access to third parties
on a legal basis.
The third is that the owner or owner
of this information has introduced
a trade secret regime in relation
to such information.
One can give an example of how it is
necessary to keep their secrets, so when
visiting one aircraft plant
in the United States of America, it
is the Boeing plant, the Japanese delegation
was dressed, it was hot and the
Japanese were dressed in short
shorts, in light shirts, but on
their feet they had shoes on
a large microporous pillow.
When the Boeing security service
analyzed the activities of this
excursion, they concluded that
the Japanese specially wore
microporous shoes to make metal
slurries from alloys used in aircraft
construction, these
slurries fit into the pillow
and thus the Japanese took
out of the territory of
the plant industrial waste,
the content of which
was a commercial secret.
Boeing filed a lawsuit against the
Japanese company, but the US court found
the actions of the Japanese company
legitimate, because Boeing did
not take measures to close,
to ensure the regime of commercial
secret, that is, no measures
were taken to preserve
this secret.
What are the information leakage channels?
Here on the slide are the channels
of information leakage, well two main
channels, it is leakage through personnel
and leakage through technical
channels, natural and artificial
channels.
Physical repression.
Physical repression is
also a very important element
of unfair competition.
Well, this is robbery, attacks
on offices, on staff, threats
of physical executions
on heads and family members,
ordered murders, hostage capture.
Now we are facing a new phenomenon
of unfair competition, this
is economic terrorism, that is,
the methods of economic terrorism
are beginning to penetrate into
industry, this is explosions, this
is the use of chemical
and poisonous substances against
competitors.
Unfortunately, this is the reality.
Unfair competition can also be
attributed to fraud, unfriendly
merger and acquisition,
black pear, head hunting,
also interesting areas of
competitive struggle, unfair
competition, head hunting
or head hunting.
Head -head, hunt -hunter - hunter
Work on ensuring the safety of business
activities in the conditions of
competitive struggle is the
activity to identify possible
competitive threats, prevent
and eliminate them, or
minimize them by means of appropriate
legal design of technological
implementations and
organizational measures.
Protection against unfair competition
involves a number of methods.
This is primarily organizational
methods, information methods,
identifying various links
with crime and with administrative
resources.
Use of various technical
means.
The slide shows some areas
of activity to protect against
unfair competition.
The existing information resource and
existing sufficiently successfully
cope with this task, well, of
course, in the presence
of trained personnel in this field.
Now let us consider the second topic.
Let's talk about safety principles.
If in the first part we talked about
entrepreneurship, we talked about
the competitive environment, then
now we will talk more in detail
about what is security.
In defending our case, we must
answer three questions.
The first thing we are defending.
The second question is who we are protecting.
The third is how we protect
our business.
And these three questions, they
define the structure, the concept
of security of any business, including
entrepreneurship.
Defining the security.
Security is the state of protection
of the vital interests of the
state, society, individual, enterprise
from external and internal
threats.
This definition is defined
in the Russian Federation
Security Act.
The concept of safety can be interpreted
more easily, as the Ozhikov dictionary
describes.
Security is the absence of threat
to anyone, anything.
A life without threats is
a safe life.
Security is the impossibility of harming
the manifestation of threats, that
is, their protection from threats.
The Maslow pyramid is found.
It is a well-known pyramid that
shows the hierarchy of needs of
each person.
The pyramid is based on
physiological needs.
Food, housing, food, food, housing,
clothing, heat and self-preservation needs.
Security, as the need for self-
preservation, lies at the basis of
the pyramid and any society, any
manifestation of human
activity is always associated
with the need to ensure security.
Structure of the concept of security.
The first question is, what
to protect?
It is a security object.
In our case, the object
of security is business
activity, is our company, is the
management of companies, the
staff of companies, members
of their families.
These are security objects.
threats to the security object.
We have already started to talk a little
about what threats are.
The classification of threats is quite complex.
Thus, threats can be external,
internal, threats can be accidental,
threats can be deliberate,
threats can be natural, and
threats can come from
technological processes.
This is a lot being said now,
and this issue really deserves
attention.
The third component structure of the
concept of security is to
ensure the security of the object.
These are the resources and resources
that every entrepreneur should
direct to their safety.
So, the security object is what protects,
protects against threats.
Well, in our case, as we said,
the security object is the entrepreneur,
it is the business process,
it is his activity.
The security content of the security
system will be the protection against
threats of unlawful change of property,
threats of damage to financial
and material resources of personnel,
threats of confidential
information.
What are security objects?
These are the types of activities, this
is the property and resources of the enterprise,
this is the staff, management.
Now we are talking about shareholders,
which are also an object of security.
Let's see what
is business security.
This is a set of activities
on security, means of security
and security entities.
Let's start with the subjects.
The security of business
is the one who protects
business.
These are state structures, law
enforcement agencies, private
security enterprises, consulting
companies.
And, of course, the first
subject of security is the
company's own security
services.
Moreover, a number of functions of
the enterprise's security service can, therefore,
be given aside, for example, by concluding
a contract with a private security
enterprise on the protection of
the external perimeter.
Safety measures, what
measures?
These are technical
means, perimeter
protection, access
control, computer
security.
In general, in modern society,
the industry of business security
is very developed, as evidenced
by the appearance of a sufficiently
large number of various
technical and software
tools on the market.
Well, and security activities
are organizational measures,
they are management measures,
and legal measures to ensure
business safety.
The picture shows the consequences of
the security violation.
What could lead to a
security breach?
First of all, it is a violation of the
business process.
Violation of the business process
can lead to loss of revenue, may lead
to a reduction in investor confidence,
a reduction in customer confidence,
a deterioration of the company's
reputation, or a loss or
compromise of confidential
data held by the company.
And, of course, there may be legal
consequences associated with either
the loss of the business as a whole,
or the loss of some business assets.
Now let's look at the
third threat.
We will discuss security
threats in more detail.
What is a security threat?
First, let's define the
concept of threat.
Threat is a set of factors and conditions
that pose a danger to the
vital interests of the
individual, society and the state.
For an enterprise, the
definition of a security
threat will sound as
a set of factors and conditions
that pose a danger
to the vital interests
of the enterprise and
the vital interests of
business activity in general,
the threat this intention
threat intent to harm
a potential threat quite
general such a concept
and we talk about the
threat as some kind
of a set of actions not
occurring when the threat
is not realized then
we talk about causing
damage or we talk about
the attack to ensure
the security of the
enterprise the most
important condition is
the identification
in the early stages of
the detection of
the early stages
of the appearance of
the threat minimization
of the damage from
these threats means
the basis of the business
organization is also
the analysis of the
real and potential
external and
internal threats,
that is, we are
in the beginning
of the search for
possible threats
for the organization
of the
security
Since the situation changes quickly
enough, it is also the financial
situation, it is the demographic
situation, the political
situation, then every element, every
situation, it may one way or another
represent the ground for threats.
One important transition
to threat analysis is their
classification and ranking by
their nature and by the degree
of danger they pose.
With this classification of threats,
different signs can be used, and
here the slide shows a comprehensive
classification of the security threats
of the company.
Threats can be divided by
the source of origin, who
is the source of the threat,
whether it is a crime, whether
it is a competing organization,
whether it is a Western company.
Furthermore, we can talk about the
nature of the threat, whether it
is a threat of a technogenic nature,
whether it is a natural catastrophe
or a threat related to human
activity, the threat can be intentional
and unintentional.
Threats can be divided by
probability of implementation,
the threat can be very real and very unlikely.
In the amount of expected damage,
for example, the damage from
the implementation of a threat can
be very large, but the probability
of this threat and its implementation
can be very small.
Threats can be divided
as predictable when
we can predict a threat
or not.
The threat may occur by chance.
For example, we can predict some
techno-genetic disasters, understanding
that the life of, for example,
some unit, 15-20 years has already
passed, but the unit still continues
to work, but the likelihood
of a threat, of course,
increases sharply.
According to the object of the attack,
there can also be a certain
classification, what the threat
is aimed at, what business process,
what person.
By analyzing all the security threats of
the company, we can create a so-
called threat matrix that will show us
the possible threats, possible damage,
and by analyzing the threats and
sources of threats, we are able
to build a system, a model of
protection of our organization.
Who could be the source of threat?
That is, threats we have seen what
it is, and now means sources
of threats.
The slide shows the main sources
These are primarily competitors,
customers, crime, other
sources to which the state belongs.
Yes, the state can also be a
source of threats to
the entrepreneur, by issuing some
law that will limit the action
of entrepreneurs, or by means
of licensing the state can
also limit the activity
of the enterprise.
The state also uses
tax methods.
The source of threats may be foreign
intelligence of TNCs, we are talking
about Russia's accession to TNCs, these
are transnational companies.
Public organizations also
pose a threat to many,
such as environmentalists.
Often under the mark of the
struggle for the environment
may be competitors, or competitors
can somehow influence public organizations,
attracting them to
competitive struggle.
Ex-employees, inadequate personalities,
especially former offended
employees who know the vulnerabilities
of your company and have good connections,
remaining business connections,
are also a very dangerous
source of threat.
External hazards and threats
arise outside the enterprise,
but, as a rule, these sources, these
dangers they interact with
internal sources of threats,
that is, external sources are
looking for an ally within
your enterprise.
Here, on the slide, what external
dangers and threats arise
outside the enterprise and who
are these sources, almost everyone
has spoken about, but sect
and informal association
can also pose
a certain danger.
So, the sources of internal threats are
personnel, that is, the staff is,
on the one hand, the object
of protection, since the personnel
is directed by the aspirations of
many of our intruders and competitors,
but the staff is also
the source of internal threats.
These are family members, these are shareholders,
and the new source of internal threats
is the management.
If we talk about internal competition,
such a phenomenon has appeared
recently, when the struggle for the
redistribution of ownership
begins and often unfriendly absorption
and merger, they occur precisely
with the involvement of part of
the management of the enterprise,
that is, between VIPs, between
the leading managers
of the enterprise can often
also be competitive struggle.
Threats to the security of business here
are shown on the slide, internal threats
to them we include sabotage, information
leakage, theft, violation of
control, here is a very dangerous
threat, this is a violation of
the decision-making process
and bringing this decision to executives.
This is a violation of the technological process.
We have spoken a lot about external
threats, we include the manifestation
of economic terrorism, the
manifestation of industrial
espionage, theft of material and
financial funds, racket, extortion,
blackmail, physical extortion,
intimidation, all the arsenal
of threats is very - very great.
Depending on the type of threat,
the relevant security structures
of the enterprise are identified,
that is, after studying the possible
potential threats, assessing the
degree of risk of their
occurrence, assessing the possible
damage from these threats, we identify
those directions that need to be
protected, thus creating the security
structure of our business.
You can distinguish several components,
in the first place it is information security,
to which we include protection of
technical channels, protection
against information leakage,
protection of personnel,
protection of document turnover.
Further, financial security,
economic security, personnel
security, physical security,
legal security, and a
separate type of security structure
we include information-analytical
support of security
services, so-called competitive
intelligence.
This is a new direction that appeared
in Russian business quite recently,
which provides the study of the
activities of competitors, the study of
the competitive environment.
This activity has become possible due to
the emergence of new information
technologies and the transformation
of information into a commodity.
We will also discuss this issue
in a separate topic of our
seminar today.
Business security information
and analytics support.
The new topic, the fourth topic,
is the topic that is related to competitive
intelligence.
We are talking about information
and analytics work in the company.
Speaking of this direction, we believe
that the information and analytical
activities of the enterprise are
primarily related to the identification
of threats in the early stages
of their appearance.
This is competitive intelligence.
Let us define what we understand
by competitive intelligence.
It is possible to give such a definition
as information-analytical
activity, not a state organization
or a natural person, aimed
at achieving competitive
superiority and carried
out by legal legal
methods.
That is, competitive intelligence,
unlike industrial spy, is engaged
in open sources of information,
uses first of all the information
opportunities that have emerged
and the tools that were previously
unavailable to the businessman
- entrepreneur.
We are talking about new information
technologies, such as the Internet,
information analytical systems,
allowing to analyze the process
of searching and analyzing
information and drawing up
causal chains.
These are professional databases,
existing in a large number and
made available to most entrepreneurs,
both Russian and foreign
databases, primarily full-text
databases LexisNexis, are
databases Dun & Bradstreet,
allowing to obtain information
about companies, more
than 140 million records
on companies.
These are Factiv systems and a number
of others that have already successfully
entered the Russian market and are
used by some companies quite effectively.
With the entry into the Russian
market of foreign companies, the
activity of the company should
develop very strongly, since Western
companies in their activities
have long been using competitive
intelligence as the main mechanism
in both marketing research and
the work of information and
analytical units of security services.
The main purpose of competitive intelligence,
as I have said, is to identify signs
of threats at the early stages
of their occurrence, well, and competitive
which in general has introduced
this concept to the wider usage.
He defined competitive intelligence
as a radar that allows in the
darkness, in the fog, to detect
those dangers that guard a business
ship.
What are the main points of
competitive intelligence?
One we have already said, it is the
model of Michael Porter, and the second
basic point is the intelligence
cycle, so the intelligence cycle
consists of four main stages, the stage
of setting the task, the stage of collecting
information, the analysis of
information and the presentation
of the results of the analysis
to the decision maker.
The intelligence cycle is the same for
all types of intelligence, so at
present all these processes, including
the process of setting a task,
have the possibility to use
new information technologies, but
of course, first of all, these
technologies are related to
the collection and analysis
of information.
The tasks that competitive
intelligence solves can be divided
into two large classes.
The first class is tactical
tasks, which include checks,
checks of business partners,
checks of competitors, checks
of recruited persons.
In general, the tasks of inspections
are very important in the activities
of the competitive intelligence service,
together with the personnel apparatus
of these marketing with
the security departments of
the first persons.
What tasks are included in
tactical, in addition to checks, are
preparations for negotiations,
preparations for journeys, preparations
for some conferences,
in which your company participates,
exhibitions.
The compilation of a dossier is also a
large class of tactical tasks, it is the
compilation of a dossier or portraits
of the decision-makers of the
competitor and of the enterprise
as a whole.
Such a document as a certificate
of the activity of a competitor
is very widespread and these
certificates form the basis
of the company's own databases.
Tactical tasks can be considered
quite a lot of tasks, but great
attention is now paid to strategic
tasks, first of all this is the
creation of a positive, positive
image of the enterprise in the public,
this is the struggle
with the black market, this
is the provision of access
to new markets both geographical
and commodity.
Well, very interesting tasks are
solved by competitive intelligence,
unusual to some extent, it is the struggle
with headhunting and the search
for new personalities of new personnel,
it is the search for a compromise
on its leader, because it means
finding such a compromise,
it can be somehow softened
in the eyes of the public.
If we do not find it, the competitor
will find this compromise and present
it in a much more negative light.
So, the next important issue for
competitive intelligence is
information resources.
I will not stop on this issue for long,
I want to say only that in the last
three to four years the possibilities
of competitive intelligence to access
information have increased dramatically.
So, the accession of Russia to the
WTO required Russian enterprises
to submit transparent business
information about their activities,
this was one of the most important
conditions for Russia's admission
to the WTO and now information about
companies starts with legal entities,
individuals, what is represented
by the State Commerce.
This is information of such agencies
as Finmarket, AKM, Integrum,
Rosbiznes Consulting.
That is, this market
of information services and
resources is quite rapidly
developing, the Russian
market.
In the West, this market has been around
for a long time and successfully.
The leaders of this market, I already mentioned
Lexis, Nexus, mentioned Dialogue, Don
and Bradstreet, they are very successful
in getting introduced to the
Russian market.
And the competitive intelligence
tool, also two words about the tool.
These are information and analytical
systems that allow to
automatize the processes of collecting
and analyzing information
on the use of the Internet as a database
of the Internet and paid online
personal data.
That is, the Internet is searched,
patterns are identified, facts that
interest the analyst are identified.
And the whole process is automated.
Such systems as Russian systems,
Galactica, Zoom, Semantic,
Archive, Acumen, and a number
of others, where about 15 domestic
information and analytical systems
are present on the Russian
market and are a very effective
tool for competitive intelligence
analysts.
The fifth is personnel safety.
Personal security issues are the
most personnel issues all decide.
This is also relevant for
our time.
It is the personnel that are primarily
the object of the aspirations of the abusers.
And the personnel can also
be abusers who can have
an impact on the company.
Therefore, a lot of attention is paid to
work with personnel.
What issues does the security service
solve when working with personnel?
It should be stressed that these issues are
solved, of course, together with
the personnel machines.
This is primarily organizational
and legal issues.
Further, these are questions of checking and
recruitment of personnel when accepting for employment.
This is a safe relationship
with current employees.
Safety of work during preparation
for dismissal and after
dismissal.
Well, such issues as conducting investigations
of various incidents
that occurred at the enterprise.
and agency work for the company.
Now let us go to the discussion
of these issues in more detail.
First, the selection of staff.
What quality should a future
employee meet?
First of all, this employee should
be a professional in his business.
Furthermore, this employee must
comply with the rules set forth
in your company.
And one of the most important rules
is to observe the confidentiality
mode, to observe the mode of
working with secret information.
It means compliance with the rules
of conduct in the company.
There are various methods of
professional selection for
safe search and recruitment.
These can be methods related to the
study of the future employee, an
employee of surveys.
These are methods for studying questionnaire
data and requests to various law
enforcement and other bodies.
Meetings with former employers.
Nowadays, technical or software-
based means of human behavior
control are being
widely used.
This is a polygraph or a lie
detector.
A new psychological method.
The method is quite interesting and tried.
Also, great attention is paid to
conducting various test tests,
different types of interviews,
questionnaires.
When carrying out such verification
activities, we carry out comparisons,
analyze the information received
and therefore give recommendations
on admission or
refusal of work.
A lot of attention should be paid
to such issues as the candidate's
inclination to gambling,
tendency to use drugs,
alcohol.
Such points are difficult to
identify, and in this regard,
various testing methods, using
personnel management and, first
of all, the safety of the company's
personnel documentation,
provide great help.
Existing rules of conduct, existing
rules of access to information
constituting a commercial
secret, are determined on
each enterprise independently.
The basis of the law is the law on
commercial secrets, which provides
for the provisions defining the work
with information constituting a commercial
secret and defining the list
of those information that cannot
be a commercial secret.
These are documents related
to licensing, environmental,
constituent documents.
The most important point of ensuring
the security of confidential
information is the organization
of a closed document of turnover,
and questions of information about
personnel, questions about personal
data, they are mandatory.
These documents must be included
in the protected documents of circulation.
Safety work with current
employees.
Look at the slide, here are
the main directions of safe
work with current employees
of the enterprise.
Here is the next slide.
First, the loyalty of the organization.
Ensuring the loyalty of the staff
of this organization is the
main direction of educational
work at the enterprise.
This includes motivation
of staff.
The motivation of the staff can
be divided into material and intangible.
Material and intangible incentives
are the leverage that will
allow the company to have
loyal staff.
And loyal staff, as is known, will
first care about the security and
information, and the safety of their
enterprise, because they understand
that this is directly related
to their financial
situation and with their work.
Control of the company staff.
There is a voiced and a voiced surveillance.
This is especially true
for, goods from the staff
is a sick problem for trade
enterprises.
Therefore, various control
methods are widely used,
including technical control
means.
It is about video cameras, audio
control, but what you need to
pay attention to.
When organizing video control of the
actions of the staff, it is necessary
to take a subscription from the
staff when taking up work that they are
familiar with the fact that video
control will be carried out over their actions.
Video controls cannot be performed
in public places such
as the dressing room or
bathroom.
Questions of honesty.
Also a rather difficult question.
The so-called mysterious
buyer method is now
being applied.
Mysterious buyer, when a person
from the controlling bodies of a
given company under the ordinary
buyer carries out trading operations,
that is, participates in
trading operations as a buyer.
This person arranges various types of
checks and gives an assessment
of the characteristics of the actions
of the salespeople.
Such forms of mysterious
buyer begin not only in trade
enterprises, but also in
show business enterprises,
in food.
The mysterious buyer evaluates how the
employees of the organizations
are dealing with him.
Safe working with public organizations
in the enterprise.
As is strange, social
organizations can also pose
a threat to the business.
This is especially true of various environmental
organizations that, without even understanding,
without knowing it, can perform
the will of competitors
or some organizations
associated with religious
manifestations.
First of all, we are talking
about different sects that can
significantly influence the activity
of the enterprise, creating informal
groups that can harm the main
activities of the enterprise.
The next issue is related to
work and after dismissal of employees.
The dismissal procedure is
always painful for the employee
you work with.
If the employee leaves peacefully,
then problems usually do not occur.
The problem is that when dismissed
by an unwanted person or dismissed,
when a person leaves not in
his will or leaves offended,
this person can pose a great
potential threat
to the business.
This is primarily due to the fact
that this person is suffering
from the person with whom he has
had a conflict.
It can be the master, it can be the
head of the department.
So, a person carries on all the
enterprises as a whole
the dissatisfaction that caused
him conflict with
his immediate head.
This person may think about some
questions.
This person is well aware of
the vulnerabilities that exist
in the enterprise and has contacts
with people working
at the enterprise.
The danger from these
people is quite high.
This danger can be
realised for a long time.
We do not know when an attack can
begin, because the conditions
and capabilities for such an
attack can mature in a month,
in two, in three.
This is problem.
When dismissed, the personnel services
together with the security
service must issue the obligations
of the dismissed employee
to the former employer.
If a person has been admitted to
confidential information by the
nature of his work, then he
or she is signed that he or she
cannot pass this confidential
information to anyone else for
a certain period of time.
Sometimes before the conclusion of the
contract, a documentary obligation
is made that a person will not
enter the company competitor.
This does not happen in all cases.
When a dismissal begins or
when we receive information
that a person plans to leave that
job, we should start restricting
that person's access to resources
before dismissal and monitoring
his behavior, as that person
may take with him the various
information resources
he had access to.
Therefore, before dismissal, we
are obliged to remove him from business
processes and transfer responsibilities
and limit his powers.
Moreover, these actions must be started
not immediately, before dismissal,
but for some certain time,
so that the person does not have
the last few words about the organizational
and legal foundations of safe
work with personnel.
In the first place in their work,
personnel and security services
should focus on the
legislation of the
Russian Federation in the
field of regulation of labor
relations.
Also defining document are the
regulations of the enterprise
in the field of business safety.
This includes the company's
security charter.
Here we bring the documents.
This is a list of information
constituting a commercial secret
of the company, which is approved
by the head, functional duties
of the service employees admitted
to information containing a commercial
secret.
These regulatory documents are mandatory
for implementation, and these documents
define the rights and obligations
of people working with confidential
information.
An important place in the organizational
and legal work is the place of the
security service in the enterprise and
the interaction of the personnel service,
the personnel service with the
security service.
The role of the security service
and personnel units in
the enterprise should be high
enough to effectively
influence the organization
of the enterprise's security system.
An important point in the work with
personnel is the conduct and investigation
of incidents that occurred
at the enterprise.
The company must have an accidents
classification by degree of
danger, there should be methods
and rules of conduct and investigation,
planning of activities.
In some cases, law enforcement
agencies should be
involved if a criminal offence
has occurred at the enterprise.
Therefore, the issues of interaction
with law enforcement agencies are also
an important element of personnel
work from the point of view
of ensuring security.
In general, now a new threat,
which was put at the top of the
threat analysis, which was conducted
by independent experts in 2004,
is the threat from the so-called
reversal in the pursuit.
And here, with a federal structure,
and local authority structures often
exceed their powers.
Therefore, the personnel and security
services of the enterprise must very
clearly understand how to behave
with representatives of
supervising and controlling organizations.
In this regard, I would like to
advise you to read the book of Sergey
Ivanovich Puchkov.
I came to you for a check.
The book describes in detail
the procedure for interaction with
representatives of various
supervisory and control bodies.
When conducting investigations at
enterprises, we must conduct a thorough
investigation, starting with the analysis
of the crime or incident,
with the analysis of the information
obtained, the construction
of versions, the involvement of
investigators that could clarify
the situation, the determination
of the measures that need
to be taken to prevent
such events in the future.
Now let's get to another
point, which is closely
related to human safety.
This is the fight against headhunting.
I said headhunting is a hunt
for heads.
In literal translation, headhunting
is the hunt for heads that becomes
one of the most effective in competitive
struggle.
That is, we lose a leading
specialist if our competitors
can somehow identify the weaknesses
of this person and
influence him.
At the same time, the competitor
can engage this specialist in his work.
That means he can strengthen
his position.
I remember the Pareto rule.
Pareto's rule is that 20 percent of
the people do 80 percent of their
work, or 20 percent of the Germans
drink 80 percent of their beer.
Many such examples can be given.
It is suitable for all
organizational structures, for
bees, for ants, for humans.
When organizing the security
system in the company, this rule
should be taken into account.
So I will explain.
If you consider the rating of personnel
from the security position, that is,
to determine which figures occupy the
most key positions and the loss of which
figures can cause greater damage to
the enterprise, then you can build
such a hierarchy.
First is the system administrator.
This is about those companies where
information technology
becomes the determinant.
These are either banks or some large
enterprises where the technological
processes are entirely built on
the application of computing
technology.
The system administrator.
The second.
The third place is shared by the Chief Accountant
and the Chief Executive Officer.
The fourth place is the head
of the security service.
Why the system administrator?
I would like to remind you of the
Soviet times, it is the late 70s.
In the newspapers of the time there
was an interesting publication that
at the Volt Automobile Plant, the
factory producing cars "Zhyguli"
happened such a case when the system
administrator did not pay 130
rubles of the premium he counted
on, paid 100 rubles, this person
was offended and relieved the stress
of Russian customs, that is, he
left drinking for three days,
and the conveyor stopped, the
main conveyor stopped, no one
could run this conveyor and
the factory and the country lost
several million full-weight
Soviet rubles, when one ruble
was worth $0.67.
This is what can lead to a human error,
and if this error is intentional, that
is, the problem of the system administrator
in one of the central in ensuring
the security of the enterprise,
can be replaced, with difficulty
of course, but it is possible to
the general director, chief accountant,
but the system administrator can
put in the work of IT systems
a lot of unpleasant traps and
therefore the problem of a
good attitude to this administrator
and protection of this person
from external influences
becomes and is the headache
of many security services.
How are staff checked?
We have already talked about this a little,
meaning this or questionnaire methods
of verification, when a person records their
data in the questionnaire and the personnel
structures verify what he recorded,
performing queries to personal
departments, organizations or personnel
verification.
Here on the slide is shown the method SMIKE,
this is an abbreviation of the American,
the first letters of the American
words SEX, S, M, MONEY, money,
ideology, so well, under ideology
here is understood and the relationship
to religion, to culture, to collections,
to sports and so on
and so on.
A compromise is C, a compromise is E, and E
is the ego, that is, how a person
positions himself, how he thinks
of himself, who he thinks of himself in society.
And in these five directions, the assessment
of a person is carried out, meaning this method
was proposed by the U.S. Federal
Bureau of Investigation, which means that
the assessment of the employees they were
checking and the assessment of the
possibility of recruiting the agency.
Well, it is quite transparent this
method and can be used in the activities,
therefore, the security services
of commercial enterprises.
So, a man is studying in these
directions.
I would like to stop in two directions.
The first direction is the ego, let us start
from the end and talk a little about ideology,
well about ideology in the understanding
of all these suprastructing,
so to speak, components.
These are sectarian organizations, some
forms of informal organizations.
Let's start with the ego.
There was a case when at one enterprise
representatives of the security service
of the enterprise were in a large,
they had a big problem, there
was a leak of computer information,
and by all external signs, the
source of the leak was a young man,
a programmer, who had, in general
-that, the possibility of access
to this information, but by
its external features he fully
corresponded to that image of
the spy, which, therefore,
is cultivated in the mass media
of information in theaters.
That is, a young man, after
watching films about James Bond, decided
to position himself, so to
position himself in the role of
clothes, accordingly presented
these hats, these black glasses,
this is a long coat in almost
all seasons.
When a certain person appeared in
the office and in the room where
he worked, he threw the
phone, left a mysterious
look, always about something familiar
people who came to the
company, that is, in formal
terms he looked like such an
image of a spy that we often
see in such low-proof detectives.
When they began to seriously check
his capabilities, it turned out
that he, of course, had no relation
to his check took a lot of
time and financial information
costs.
That is, this is how a person
positiones himself, so, unfortunately,
there are currently quite a
lot of people who have not found themselves
in society, and here they begin
to live in different virtual worlds,
and here is one such example
was given below.
Well, a few words about ideology, also
a very important point when checking
the staff.
We consider, well, first, this
direction of ideology as collectivization.
It is known that if a person
collects, whether he is an academic
there, he will not be accepted
to work in museums, which have a
rich collection.
That is, the collector's sense
can often prevail over the
obligations to the organization.
Or a player.
A very dangerous type of staff,
when people start to be interested
in games, starting with computer
games and ending with
gambling.
This can also lead to gambling,
and we can already talk about
such addiction, about computer
addiction, like drug and
alcohol addiction.
By looking at the people being checked,
the staff being checked from different
angles, we can identify
trends that can lead to information
leakage and unreliability
of staff.
The inspection of personnel by the SMAYC method
is one of the types of inspection.
And checks are usually complex
when checked by several methods,
especially when appointed to
important critical positions.
I have already spoken about
the use of software and hardware,
technical means, in particular, on
personnel, on polygraph.
It should be noted that the check
on the polygraph for commercial
structures, possible with a lie
detector, the personnel equipment
has only with his written
consent.
According to the Law on Private
Security and Detective Activities,
such checks are allowed.
For employees of government
structures, such checks are
often mandatory.
Now we move to a new topic.
The new theme is the sixth
theme – counteracting corporate seizures.
One of the most challenging topics
for security services
is counteracting corporate seizures.
Unfriendly absorption is
becoming a very dangerous
phenomenon for Russian entrepreneurs,
and from the media we
see how many cases are
linked to this side
of unfair competition.
We consider unfriendly acquisition
as a type of corporate
conflict, and let
us define what it
is.
By unfriendly acquisition we mean the
establishment of complete control
over that company or asset, both
in the legal and physical sense,
contrary to the will of management
or the will of the owner of that
company or asset.
Here is a very important sign that
the action of the aggressor
company is always the resistance
of the company's target.
Here we distinguish in this process,
the process of unfriendly seizure
of assets or companies, and the company's
target whose assets
are threatened.
The first step in unfriendly
absorption can often be a green mail.
Green mail or corporate blackmail
is a complex of various negative
effects that are undertaken
by a minority shareholder
in order to force a company
or its major shareholders
to purchase shares belonging
to this minority at a very
high price.
That is, we can say that in Russia
there has been a new kind of
unfriendly influence, when a person
purchasing a small package of shares
or acting on the authority of a minoritarian
begins to conduct a very aggressive
policy, a policy of blackmail
against the management of
the company in order to force
this company to pay very
large shares.
That is, it is a green mail, in translation
green is a green, dollars, mail is a
mail, that is, sending money by mail,
it gives the definition of a green mail.
The activity of the green-meiler,
and the person who carries out these
negative actions, he is called the green-
meiler, is always aimed at destabilizing
the position in the joint-
stock society and disrupting
the normal functioning of this society.
The scheme of action is quite simple.
Initially, a scenario is developed,
the company that can serve as an
object of influence is
identified, the surrounding of this
company is studied, the
possibilities of this company
to attract an administrative
resource, law enforcement
agencies or criminal groups are studied.
Furthermore, the company's response
to the efforts of the green mailers
is being studied after the scenario has been
developed and the decision to start
the attack has been made.
The action itself begins, namely, a small
package of shares or a power of
attorney from a small shareholder is acquired.
Furthermore, existing or misguided
violations in the joint-stock company
are used to disorganize its activities.
That is, it can be incorrectly
issued property documents,
incorrectly issued
privatization documents,
some decisions.
That is, any violations in
the activities of a joint-stock company
are used by green-mealers to
create such a difficult situation,
a situation when some court
proceedings begin.
That is, people are dragging
society into scandals.
And in order to get rid of these scandals,
at the last stage, the green-mailer
makes the management of
the company a proposal to buy
his shares, but at a higher
price.
The goal of the green-mealers is money.
But if the green-meiler sees, usually behind
the back of the green-meiler there
are quite powerful forces, if these forces
see that the enterprise is inadequately
reflecting these threats, that is, the
enterprise begins to break, so
say, then it is possible to continue
the action of the green-meiler already
aimed at seizing the assets of the enterprise.
The stock-buying begins, the
extortion of the management begins, and eventually
this affair ends with
the seizure of either an asset or the
enterprise as a whole.
What is in the green-meiler arsenal?
Complaints to various bodies
for the purpose of conducting
checks in respect of the company,
its officials, shareholders, permanent
demands for holding extraordinary
meetings of shareholders,
unjustified appeal of decisions
and actions of the management
bodies of the company.
Often to disorganize the work of a
joint-stock company, green mailers resort
to such tricks, they can complain
to the regional branches of the federal
commission under a securities, if copies
of the documents of the
company are not presented
within the time limit, that is, the
green mailers require a copy of the
documents on any issue that
is discussed at the meeting.
Or very often use this technique of
not including part of the
nominated candidates in the list for
voting in the elections, the
green-mailer begins to nominate one,
the second, the third candidate.
And when the patience of the leaders
of the assembly is over and
its candidatures are not included,
then this moment can serve as
a basis for recognizing the
invalidity of the general assembly decision.
If the documents stipulate the
number of candidates being submitted
by one person, that is, the green-
mailer always studies and very carefully
studies the issues, procedures
for conducting all sorts of activities,
and finding some trap or finding
some vulnerability, he
begins to develop this vulnerability.
Or green mailers require
extraordinary general meetings
on any matter, if they
have a certain amount
of interest, a
certain number
of shares.
Very often green mailers try to arrest
on the eve of important transactions
for society, and green mailers, as
a rule, have good enough contacts
with representatives of the
judiciary, that is, the actions
of green mailers, this is not
the action of one person, but the
action of a team that works in
one direction, namely in selling
their shares for very large
sums.
Special methods of influence on
management of the company green-mealers
apply to solve their tasks.
In particular, for example, they file
lawsuits against members of the board
of directors or persons exercising
executive powers, that is, there
is constant pressure on any issue,
pressure on the management
of the company or large shareholders.
Often serious problems are created
for enterprises, managers and
shareholders, because formally
green mailers act within the law,
and since often enterprises
violate laws or are on the verge
of violation of laws, green
mailers enjoy imperfections
and legal system, well,
imperfection of the
actions of entrepreneurs
and managers of enterprises.
Let's look at the internal device
of the company Aggressor.
That is, green mailers are as if the
leading link of those companies that
in their form began to use seizure
as a kind of independent business.
That is, unfriendly acquisition
is considered as an independent
business process that
is governed by
certain rules, by
certain laws.
One of the components of the project
on destabilization, on
unfriendly acquisition is the
destabilization of the business
processes of the company.
That is, the company Aggressor
begins its activities, launching
green-mailers as before
in wrestling.
At first, a young boy, a
small boy, was released, who
struck the enemy team.
This is the role of the green-mealer.
If, therefore, the company does not
hold this blow, then the process
begins to develop and from
the requirement to buy shares, these
requirements go to attempts to
seize assets or seize the enterprise
as a whole.
What elements does the Aggressor
Company consist of?
What structural units are
the main for such a company?
The first is the department responsible for collecting
and analyzing information.
A department that serves intelligence
purposes.
The second is the process of directly
implementing capture, the
process of non-priced absorption.
A very important place in the activity of
the company Aggressor occupies the
legal department.
Let's see what information
the aggressor is interested in.
First of all, this is information of
a personal business nature, it is weaknesses
of people, it is addiction of people,
it is informal leaders, it is personal
hostility in the team, especially
hostility between managers
of enterprises, possible
focuses of conflict, opposition.
That is, information is collected
that would allow Aggressor
to disrupt the work of the team
and identify those dissatisfied
who could become their
allies.
Such information is necessary
for Aggressor to implement
its plans.
Plus, this is the information collected
by the intelligence department, but in
addition, the intelligence department
is studying the company's environment
in order not to turn from the company
Aggressor to the company Purpose.
That is, the intelligence department evaluates
the counterpart's capabilities,
so to speak, from the company's Target.
This information is transmitted to
the legal department, which analyzes
the information received from the position
of violation of the laws.
And also the legal department
is studying possible actions of
the company Aggressor from the
point of view of the law, violates
the law or not.
That is, the legal department recommends
the procedure for conducting actions
of the second department and, therefore,
assesses the legal frequency of
conducting its operations.
In general, Aggressor companies have
very powerful legal units
and have, as a rule, good
informal relations with the
judicial authorities.
What can the company do to protect
itself?
What preventive systems of
protection against unfriendly acquisition
should be implemented?
First, it is the formation of a
protected corporate structure.
This is the organization of monitoring
the current situation, that is, the
identification of the first signs of attacks on the company.
Attacks can be either the purchase
of shares starts unexpectedly,
or it can be the interest of some
minorities who have never been
interested in the affairs of
a joint-stock company.
Suddenly they or their documents
about the company's activities,
or the appearance of negative
articles about the enterprise,
or unexpected checks by supervisory
and control bodies.
That is, many can be identified specific
indicators of the onset of attacks.
Further, such a system is effective motivation
and limitation of the powers of the
managers of the enterprise.
A very important point, because in most
cases, the company aggressors are
looking for allies in the person of
someone from the company's executives.
And the motivation of existing
leaders should be successful
enough that these leaders
do not look aside.
The limitation and division
of powers is very important.
That is, in the hands of one
leader should not concentrate
a lot of forces, so that this person
is not in his interests not to
sell, in the quotes not to sell, assets
and enterprises not belonging
to him company - the aggressor.
One of the preventive protective measures
is the creation of conditions
that prevent the mass buying of shares.
That is, shareholders, as a rule,
shareholders are employees
of the enterprise, must
in some way control the number
of shares they have, to control
the start of the massive
start of the purchase
attack.
And a very important point is
the creation of a monitoring
system, a system of control over
the company's creditorship.
That is, often the company collects
loans and does not control the total
amount of loans that the
company-agressor uses and buys
these debts from creditors, after
which it begins to dictate its terms.
Now let's look at tactical ways
to protect against unfriendly absorption
in the conditions of the attack
that has begun.
First of all, it is a shares
and shares buyer.
That is, the next urgent
restructuring of assets in the
company is the purpose and transfer
of these assets to either subsidiaries
or other friendly companies.
This is the blocking of a package
of shares acquired by the company-
aggressor, with simultaneous
conduct of an additional mission.
That is, carrying out an additional
mission expands the number of shares,
and these shares can be provided to
the company-aggressor.
The most important way, of course,
is to work with shareholders,
to explain with shareholders,
to bind these shareholders
to their company.
And of course, it is protection through attack.
It is at the beginning of the attack
to start their game, again, defense
through attack, start the fight
against the media and fight against
the specific perpetrators
of those aggressive intentions.
Defending through attack is the
best weapon.
Now we move to the seventh topic
– the fight against economic terrorism.
The topic is very relevant, very
important, especially in light of
recent events, when I speak
of polonium poisoning of some
“businessmen”, although, in
my opinion, Litvinenko's cases
are just about competitive struggle
between various competing
commercial organizations.
Now the use of such means – mass
poisoning, explosives, radioactive
polonium of this famous
Russian entrepreneur,
who in the 90s was also
poisoned with salts of
the radioactive element.
And a number of other similar cases.
This shows that competitors
are beginning to use
terrorist methods to solve
their tasks.
The terrorist targets, or terrorist
targets, are used in the dark by competitors
when terrorists don't really
understand for whose sake they
are carrying out terrorist acts.
The objectives are first and foremost
to create an atmosphere of fear in order
to stop the activity of
the company or individual employees.
It is achieved either by blackmail
of the manager or staff, well, and the
most vulnerable place is children.
Often the target of terrorists is
the blackmail of state structures,
that is, there is a terrorist act
against a large enterprise, or not
the terrorist act itself, but the
threat of a terrorist act for the
blackmail of state structures.
The destruction of material values can
also be attributed to the targets of terrorists.
The spectrum of possible terrorist
aspirations is quite large.
You can also remember the explosions of hotels
in Egypt, on the island of Bali, the explosions
of buses with tourists.
That is, these, at first glance,
are political goals, they, in general,
have a close connection with the struggle
of competitors.
That is, the struggle in the show
business, the struggle in the tourism
business – it is quite tough,
and it is often accompanied by such
methods that are more typical for
terrorists.
Consider the actions of terrorists in preparation
for the operation.
First, attempts to implement
into the management bodies of the enterprise.
Furthermore, the acquisition of
secret intelligence agents within
the enterprise working
for terrorist groups.
Study of the system of protection
of enterprises, the system of communication
with law enforcement agencies,
interaction with
law enforcement agencies.
Therefore, in the preparation of terrorists
for the operation, some features
can be identified.
In particular, the study of the situation
around the object by unknown
persons, the finding of unknown
cars for a long time at the enterprise
gate, inquiries of employees
of the enterprise by unknown persons
about the structure of protection,
working modes.
All this can serve as
indicators of alleged actions
by terrorists and security services.
You must study these signs.
In the implementation of terrorist
operations, what types
of terrorist operations can be
used against industrialists,
against businessmen?
First of all, this is the capture
of hostages, this is the destruction
of material values, this is the
so-called explosive terrorism.
Explosive terrorism can be divided
into two categories.
The first is terrorism intimidating,
when explosives of low
power or door explosions
are used, explosions distracting
car explosions or mailing
of explosives of low
power.
And high power, when a person does
not agree to the conditions put
forward by terrorists, high power
explosions are used to
physically destroy or
destroy objects.
Violation of technological
processes and management structure
is also a type of
terrorist operation, and many
industries can also suffer
from violations of business processes.
Any terrorist attack consists of several stages.
Let's look at the preparation stages.
The slide contains four stages.
The first is intelligence training,
analysis, the environment of the entrepreneur,
the possibilities for counteracting terrorism,
that is, the technical and material
preparation for the conduct of
a terrorist attack, the execution
of a terrorist attack, the third and
fourth stage of cleaning the crime and
concealing the perpetrators
of the terrorist attack
are further studied.
Signs of explosives
in mail are shown on
the slide.
In general, they often try
to use mail for
terrorist actions.
This is the transfer of explosives
of low power, it is the transfer
by mail of various poisonous
substances, well or attempts to
blackmail using camouflage,
well, for example, harmless
powders, which are also often,
especially after some
terrorist acts, and unbalanced
people, and the so-called
jokers, send to the directors.
Moreover, the signs of the presence
of mass destruction means in mailing,
they are quite well known
and here are presented on the slide.
This is the presence of moving objects,
careful crafting of letters, the presence
of type inscriptions in person in the
hands and so on.
Security measures against terrorist
attacks.
What should be done to
protect your business from
such threats?
First, it creates an information
vacuum around the object.
What is happening inside the enterprise
should not be accessible to
any terrorist groups or any
other criminal communities,
competitors.
Creation and training of an object or
training of the personnel of the object
on security measures for their strict observance.
Safe routes for the movement
of decision-makers should
be developed.
Safe routes of transport
flow have been changed.
The situation at the place of residence
and work should be monitored.
Two are those two points that
are always present in any object.
The first place is the home and the
second is the workplace.
These two places should be
monitored and some deviations
from the current regime
should be detected.
The time of departure and arrival
to work should be constantly changed.
There must be timetables for
the introduction of security
services in emergency situations.
The nearest environment should be
trained on the issue of safety.
The rules of conduct should be known
to family members, secretaries, drivers.
Engineering and technical protection
of residential and office premises
shall be carried out.
Important attention should
be paid to the preparation of
danger signals to transmit to relatives
and security services staff
information about preparing
terrorist acts.
The presence of a worked contact
with the anti-terrorist centers
of law enforcement agencies.
Legends of places, the location
of objects, protection and observation
of the situation in these places
must be carried out.
Possible, potential, and
possible places of terrorist attacks
are identified and these places
must be specially protected
or under surveillance.
There are a number of measures
to effectively combat
these threats.
The priority of the security
service in the event of a terrorist
act against
the enterprise.
The security service must have
a plan of action for various
terrorist acts.
Thus, threats should be considered,
options for security services
actions should be considered
when implementing
a threat.
What should we pay attention to?
First of all, it is the
immediate activation of the alarm
signal and the taking of necessary
security measures to
prevent terrorists from leaving
the facility when confusion
and panic start.
The contact with the Department of
the Ministry of Internal
Affairs should be organized
immediately after the attack
and information should be transmitted
about the terrorist act.
In the interaction with the employees of
the MFA, the following information
should be prepared.
This is information about the persons involved
in the incident, that is, about
the terrorists and those people who
witnessed this terrorist act with the
indication of their identification traits.
The signs of terrorists transport,
their directions of movement,
data on the results of the terrorist attack,
information and information about security
personnel who were on duty at
the time of the terrorist attack
should be given.
These information will
help law enforcement agencies
to deal with the terrorist act
and help in the search for terrorists.
The last topic of our seminar
is organizational methods of business
protection.
Let us go back to the beginning and remember
the definition of safety.
We said that security is
a state of security.
Determining the economic
security of the enterprise, we can
say that this is the state of the
given economic object, in which
the vital structures and activities
of the business process of the
enterprise are characterized
by a high degree of protection
from unwanted changes.
Security of an enterprise is the
state of protection of its
vital interests from external
and internal threats.
Such security is achieved by the
application of a complex of
various measures of organizational
nature, engineering,
technical, economic,
legal, social.
The security of the enterprise is achieved
only by the complexity of the application
of various methods of the enterprise.
The slide shows a simplified structural
scheme of the enterprise and the place
of the security service and the
structure of this security service.
Here you can distinguish the physical
protection service, the protection and access
control service, the PDTR department, the department
of counteraction to technical intelligence,
the counterintelligence service, the internal
counterintelligence of the enterprise,
the financial and planning department,
the legal department and the engineering
and technical protection
of information security.
Separately, the information-
analysis service, the competitive
intelligence service, is
assigned directly
to the Deputy Director
of Security or the General
Director.
The security service cannot work
without interaction with other
enterprise units, in particular
with the audit department, with the
technical director, with the financial
director and the financial
service, with the main production,
structures of the enterprise.
The purpose of ensuring the safety
of the enterprise, as we have already
said, is the comprehensive impact on
external and internal threats, allowing
the enterprise to function functionally
in the complex conditions of
the external and internal
environment, in conditions of changing.
What should be noted is that
the enterprise security system
in each enterprise is unique,
that is, we cannot talk
about a typical set of security
services.
This is due to the fact that for each
enterprise there are its own types of
threats, the degree of possible
implementation of these threats
and its financial capabilities
to ensure security, its administrative
links.
Therefore, the uniqueness of
the security service is a mandatory element.
Independent, separated from
similar systems of other
production units.
The Security Service
cannot be part of any other
structural unit.
A very important point is the complexity
of the security system,
that is, the security system
of the enterprise is
oriented to solve a complex of
different problems that
are facing it.
The slide shows the basic principles
of building a security system.
We will not list them.
Here are 16 principles, they are all very important.
What would I like to pay attention to?
This is a priority for warning measures.
That is, the security service
should prevent some
crimes and minimize possible
threats.
Another very important point
is legality.
We did not talk about those norms,
those laws, on the basis of which
there is a security service.
The main law is the Law on Private
Detective and Security
Activities in the
Russian Federation, the
law of 92 years.
It regulates the operation of the security
service at the enterprise, and
the security service must be
created in agreement with the
territorial body of the
Ministry of Internal Affairs
and have a head of the security
service, have a license to
carry out this activity.
Based on the above-formulated tasks
of the security system, the
principles of its construction
and functioning, the enterprise
security system can perform
two such important directions.
It is a direction of security from
internal threats and a direction of
security from external threats.
Depending on these directions, internal
subsystems are created.
First of all, for domestic security, this
is security, this is the mode, this
is counterintelligence, computer
security, counter-operation with
technical intelligence – this
is the fight against various kinds
of radio screens, with information
leakage channels, and special management
of personnel.
That is, those tasks that the security
inspection service solves and the
main subsystems of external security.
Three such subsystems are business intelligence
or competitive intelligence,
it is counteraction to the black
market, that is, counteraction
to the creation of a negative
image of the enterprise, and external
counterintelligence is the activity
that is aimed at identifying
the actions of our competitors,
the abusers in relation
to our enterprise.
Methods and means of information protection.
We have already talked about these methods.
These are organizational methods.
The courts shall include appropriate
organizational legal methods.
This is the development of a list of information
constituting a commercial secret.
This is the organization of a confidential
document of turnover, a closed
document of turnover, restriction
of access of persons to the
constituent commercial secret, various
types of access control methods, and
software-hardware or engineering-
technical methods of protection
of computer networks from unauthorized
access and counteraction
to technical intelligence.
In conclusion, I wanted to introduce
you to the object security assessment
method, with the object security
assessment method, the so-called
Operation Security method.
This method can be used in the analysis
of any object of protection, ranging from
information, if we protect information
and ending with the protection
of the enterprise as a whole or
a particular individual.
This method was developed during
the Vietnam War by Greek Americans
under the tokos, and it is
a method of estimating the cost
of protective measures on
the criteria of effective cost.
It consists of seven stages, here are
shown these seven stages.
In the first phase, the state of the object
of protection is analyzed.
We consider what system, we will
assess its initial level of
protection.
In the second phase, we assess threats,
identify threats, link them to
specific threat sources,
assess the probability
of these threats, assess
possible damage.
Further, in the third phase, we evaluate
the existing security system, we evaluate
its effectiveness on the weakest
link, that is, the evaluation
of safety effectiveness goes
on the weakest link.
You may have a very good computer
security system, access control system,
but the secretary of the director,
therefore, has outputs to the
opposing side, to your competitors,
and the entire system, the
expensive security system
will not operate effectively.
In the third phase, we evaluate
the effectiveness of the existing
security system on the weakest
link.
We estimate that there may be a
very good computer security system
in the enterprise, there is
an access control system, but
the secretary of the director has
contacts with competitors, and,
in fact, the entire expensive
security system, in general, will
not perform its role.
Therefore, the analysis of the effectiveness
of the existing, I repeat, security subsystems
is carried out taking into account all
the factors of the security system.
In the fourth phase, we determine
the necessary additional security measures.
That is, we see the full picture,
we see the vulnerabilities and
we see what additional funds need
to be purchased and installed
to improve efficiency.
In the fifth phase, the proposals that
were submitted in the fourth phase
are considered and the cost of implementation
of these proposals is estimated
on the basis of the criterion
of effective cost.
At this stage, we estimate that
it is cheaper for us to create
some additional security
system, or that information
that may be lost, it is not
worth that money.
That is, here is a comparison on this
criterion, on the criterion of
effective cost, and in the sixth stage
we are implementing measures.
That is, at the sixth stage we
are already starting to install some
additional subsystems or some
organizational methods to close
access, if we are talking about
information protection.
The seventh step is the monitoring
of the implementation.
This way we have ensured effective
protection of the object, and this method
is repeated either once a quarter
or once every six months as
the objects of protection change,
threats change.
But we already have an effective
security system, so in the next
phases the costs will of
course be much less.
This method, the Operation Security
method, is used quite successfully
in assessing both foreign
and Russian information protection
facilities.
This is where I end the introduction to
the seminar, and at the end of the seminar
I would like to introduce
you to the literature that complements
the information you received during
the seminar.
First of all, the books of Vaschekhin,
Dzliyev, Ursula – the safety of
entrepreneurial activity, the books
of Oditsov – economic information
security, the book of Gruninych – the
economic security of the
organization, my book – the technology
of business security, devoted primarily
to competitive intelligence,
and the book of Oleg Babits
– the experience of military
intelligence at service in a
commercial firm.
In general, literature on this issue
is currently released a lot,
but, unfortunately, it is released
in very small volumes, and
it is not always possible to purchase it.
At the end of our workshop, I
would like to wish that the
knowledge you gained during the
interrogation will help you to
set up your security system and minimize
the threats that are inherent
in your business.
thanks to.